# Conclusion

It has been my pleasure to write up this course on how the internals of a load balancer work. I believe the best way to learn about a technology in-depth is to implement it. My aim was to provide engineers who are keen on learning networking infrastructure a deep dive on what a load balancer is and why it needs to support certain features. I hope I was able to convey this.

> You can find the final code for this course [here](https://github.com/paktek123/testdriven-loadbalancer-tdd-tutorial).

## Objectives

We've covered a lot in this course. Take a few minutes to step back and reflect on what you've learned. Ask yourself the following questions:

1. What were my objectives?
1. How far did I get? How much is left?
1. How was the process? Am I on the right track?

Objectives:

1. Explain what a load balancer is and why it's needed in network infrastructure
1. Describe the differences between host and path-based routing
1. Implement host and path-based routing with Flask
1. Practice Test-Driven Development
1. Explain why health checks are necessary for load balancing and implement them
1. Manipulate HTTP requests via the HTTP headers, URL parameters, and the URLs themselves
1. Discuss and implement various load balancing algorithms for maximizing resiliency
1. Add IP and path blocking to the load balancer so it can be used as a firewall

## Next Steps

Your turn!

1. Add the ability to manipulate [HTTP POST data](/courses/http-load-balancer/manipulating-http-request/#H-4-adding-and-removing-http-of-http-post-data) and [cookies](/courses/http-load-balancer/manipulating-http-request/#H-5-manipulating-cookies)
1. Implement the [weighted random](/courses/http-load-balancer/load-balancing-algorithms/#H-4-random-weighted-algorithm) load balancing algorithm
