# Appendix: Vocabulary

To make sure that we're speaking the same language, let's look at few keywords common throughout this course. The idea is to reference them as we discuss the various networking concepts.

1. **HTTP**, which stands for Hyper Text Transport Protocol, is protocol a on the application layer that allows us to fetch resources from the Internet such as HTML.
1. **HTTPS**, which stands for Hyper Text Transport Protocol Secure, extends HTTP by adding secure communication via TLS.
1. A **server** is a computer designed to manage network resources, which can be run directly by you or by someone else.
1. A **client** is a computer or device that communicates with a server via HTTP and/or HTTPS.
1. A **proxy** is an application that carries out an operation or task on behalf of another server.
1. Network **latency** is a delay before data is transferred between the server and client.
1. **Routing** provides a way to send requests to different collections of servers.
1. A **CDN**, which stands for Content Delivery Network, is used to serve HTML, CSS, images, JavaScript, and other static files closer to where the a client is located.
1. A **FQDN**, which stands for Fully Qualified Domain Name, is the complete domain name for a computer or host on the internet. For example, `www.testdriven.io.` is a FQDN since it contains a hostname (`www`) and a domain name (`testdriven.io`) followed by a trailing period.
1. **Backend servers** are servers behind a load balancer.
1. A **health check** is an HTTP endpoint that tells us if an application is healthy (ready to receive traffic) or not. A good health check will ensure that all dependencies of the application are functioning as well to ensure availability.
1. **HTTP headers** provide additional information about the HTTP request or response in key/value format.
1. **Accept-Language header** lets the server know which languages the client understands.
1. **User-Agent header** lets the server know the operating system, client name, and version of the requesting client/user agent.
1. **HTTP parameters** (also known as query strings) are passed in through the URL by the client in order to modify the server's response.
1. An **HTTP POST** request is an HTTP method designed to send data to a server.
1. An **HTTP cookie** is a piece of data stored on the client-side sent by the server.
1. A **firewall** monitors incoming and outgoing traffic and allows or rejects traffic based on properties of the traffic.
1. **DOS**, which stands for Denial of Service, is a common attack vector where a single client sends a large number of HTTP/TCP requests to a server with the goal of overwhelming its capacity so that other clients cannot connect to it.
1. **DDOS**, which stands for Distributed Denial of Server,  is a type of DOS attack where a mass number of clients attempt to overwhelm a server.
1. An **edge router**  is a specialized router that's the first point of contact by clients and the point of entry to your infrastructure. They normally operate below Layer 4 of the OSI model.
